# BucketList Back-End

Front End Deployment: http://wdi09-lovelace-squad.github.io/bucketlist/
Front End Repo: https://github.com/wdi09-lovelace-squad/bucketlist

## Team

* Kelvin Ma - Project Lead
* Allie Sebastian - Back End Lead
* Wil Trahan - Front End Lead

Project Prompt: https://github.com/ga-wdi-boston/express-group-project

Besides finishing WDI, you surely have one or two things you'd love to do with your life. Let's get 'em on paper! You could integrate with a third-party location-based API to allow users to search for a location or venue to add to their bucket list items.

**Reach Goal**: Add social features to your site, such as following other users. Allow users to make certain list items public, but default to private.

### Generate a New Express App

- Kelvin created a git repo
- Allie generated the express app. (`express --hbs --git --force`)
- Allie performd the 'initial' commit. (`git add . && git commit -m 'Initial commit'`)
- Allie installed dependencies. (`npm install`)

### User Stories that influenced the Back End

As a user, I want to be able to add the places I search to my list.

- The back end will recieve a call on a route and add a venue to the users list.
- Success equals item is now on todo list.

As a user, I want to be able to update the note.

- The back end will recieve a call on a route and update a note to the users list.
- Success equals list item now has a note.

As a user I want to be able to delete items from the list.

- The back end will revieve a call on a route and delete the object (venue and note) from list
- Success equals item no longer on list.

### Technologies

The back end of this application is powered by a node.js server via the Express framework.

Search results are generated via implementation of the FourSquare search API. Queries are generated by parsing JSON data from the front end and inserting them in to a URL query directly to FourSquare. The request is made via the "Request" node module, which we are then feeding back to the front end through a read stream.

The data structure is a MongoDB non-relational database. Information is organized via a single User model, which has restrictions set via Mongoose schema. Each user's "BucketList" is stored as a array, which has values that are set via a Mongoose subschema. Setting list data via subschema allows us to query the list items directly via unique ObjectID in the database for CRUD actions.
